1. Self Intro 
A: 

2. what are the projctes are done?
A:
     I. DeepQuest: A Deep Learning Approach to Contextually Relevant Question Generation
     II. Agricultural Crop Recommendation System.

3.expalin projcet of DeepQuest ?
A:
    I. DeepQuest: A Deep Learning Approach to Contextually Relevant Question Generation:

        1.The main theme of this project is to automatically generate question papers based on input provided by the user.

        2.The input can be gathered from textbooks, study materials, and other educational resources.

        3.This project utilizes NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) along with  nlp algorithm.

        4.The algorithm used is a traditional rule-based approach.

        5.Flask is used as the framework for the user interface, allowing users to interact easily with the system.

        6.The output is generated in PDF format.

4.what are the tools and modules are you used in your project?
A:
        Tools/Modules:

        	1.NLTK
        	2.Flask (Optional: Django)
        	3.PDF Generation
        	4.VS Code


5.which algorithm you are used in your  project?
A:
      traditional rule-based approach


6.what are the alternative algorithms for your project?
A:
    1. Reinforcement Learning
    2. Seq2Seq

7.why you choose this rule based algorithm for your project?
A:
    We chose a rule-based algorithm because it was simple, didn’t require large training data, and gave us full control over question formats. 
    It worked well for generating factual and structured academic questions using predefined patterns. 
    It was also easier to integrate with NLTK for text processing.



8.how much accurate your model?
A:
    80- 90 percentage accurate based on manual evaluation.




9.what is the working flow of your project?
A:
    1. It takes the input from user.
    2. the input para divided into sentance and sectances into words
    3. this process is called tokenization
    4. apply rule based algorithm to check the grammer and correct formation 
    5. the out put would be in pdf formate 
    6. Flask is used for user interface.


10.what is tokenization?
A:
    Tokenization is the process of breaking down text into smaller pieces called tokens.

    ex: "I Love AI"     -> ["I","Love", "AI"]


11.write a code for tokenization, take one text?
A:
    from nltk.tokenization  import word_tokenization, sentance_tokenization

    txt="I Love Python"

    print(word_tokenization(txt))    # for word tokens
    print(sentance_tokenization(txt))  # for sentance tokens



12.can you expalin the Agricultural crop recommandation system?
A:
    Agricultural Crop Recommendation System:

        1.This project aims to recommend the best crop based on factors such as soil properties, rainfall, and humidity.

        2.We use a machine learning algorithm, specifically a decision tree, to make crop recommendations.

        3.The Flask framework is used to create the user interface.

        4.Additionally, the system recommends the best fertilizers for higher yield.



13. which alogorithm you are used ?
A:
     A decision tree algorithm 

14.why dessicion tree?
A:
    We chose the Decision Tree algorithm because:

       1. It’s easy to interpret and visualize the decision-making process.

       2. It handles both categorical and numerical data like soil type, pH, rainfall, etc.

       3.It works well with non-linear relationships between features.

       4. It requires less data preprocessing compared to other models.



15.what are the alternative algorithms for your project
A:
    1.Random Forest
    2.Support Vector Machine (SVM)


16.4.what are the tools and modules are you used in your project?
A:
    tools/ modules:
    
    1.Python
    2.Flask
    3.pandas,numpy
    4.pickel
    5.scikit-learnin
    6.vs code
   

.7.why you choose this rule based algorithm for your project?
A:
    I chose the Decision Tree (a rule-based algorithm) because 
    it is easy to understand, handles both numerical and categorical data well, doesn’t require feature scaling, 
    and works effectively for predicting outcomes based on clear decision rules, which fits the agricultural domain.





.what is pickel file ?
A:
    Pickle is used to save the trained machine learning model into a file (.pkl) so it can be loaded later in the Flask app to make predictions without retraining the model every time.
